
# About BOA Simple Cluster (deprecated)

The legacy version of this installer supports 3 or more Percona XtraDB Cluster Galera nodes, connected via ProxySQL load balancer to a single BOA web node, all running on the same machine, or (soon) multiple machines, leveraging Linux VServer guests to create separate VPS instances.

It's technically possible to install more BOA web nodes, each with its own ProxySQL load balancer connected to the same Percona XtraDB Cluster, and put some extra load balancers in front of these web nodes, along with auto-sync for files on the web nodes, for a full High Availability setup, but it is beyond the scope of this installer, at least for now.

Unless you expect to outgrow hardware capabilities provided by a single machine with a reliable multi-drive RAID6 array and enough RAM and CPU power to handle the load generated by PHP-FPM, Redis, Nginx, and optionally Solr, the installer provides a scalable DB Cluster solution, which can be used as a starting point for future expansion.

The multi-machine cluster design is a requirement when either you have low-end hardware and drives without RAID, or when the expected traffic is too big to be handled by a single web node and/or by DB nodes all running on a single machine.

While the installer supports only a single machine during initial setup, it's easy to move some of the created DB nodes to other machines in the same network if you can re-assign IP addresses between your machines on the fly.

Please note that the Galera cluster should always run an odd number of nodes, on an odd number of machines, and in an odd number of data centers.

This requirement can be ignored safely only if there is a Galera Arbitrator installed on the web node, or another node connected to the cluster. We plan to add it on the web node by default in the future, to improve DB cluster reliability.

Note that the installer will create a classic, standalone Barracuda+Octopus pair on the web node, connected to the *locally* running DB server, which is not a part of the DB cluster. This adds more flexibility and is intended for testing future improvements and features, including the ability to convert existing standalone BOA servers to web+DB clusters.

To leverage the installed Percona XtraDB Cluster, you will need to install another Octopus instance on the web node, which will be configured on the fly to connect via ProxySQL load balancer to the Percona XtraDB Cluster.

For more information on Percona XtraDB Cluster integration please read:

- [Percona XtraDB Cluster Documentation](https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-xtradb-cluster/5.7/index.html)
- [Galera Cluster Documentation](http://galeracluster.com/documentation-webpages/index.html)
- [ProxySQL Documentation](http://www.proxysql.com)
- [Percona Blog on ProxySQL and Galera Integration](https://www.percona.com/blog/2016/09/15/proxysql-percona-cluster-galera-integration/)
- [Galera Cluster Limitations](http://galeracluster.com/documentation-webpages/limitations.html)
- [MySQL Galera Documentation](http://mysql.rjweb.org/doc.php/galera)
- [Galera Arbitrator Documentation](http://galeracluster.com/documentation-webpages/arbitrator.html)

# Requirements

- Dedicated, single bare-metal machine (RAID & 32GB+ RAM recommended)
- Five+ IPs assigned (1 public host, 1 public web + 3 private or public for DB)
- Debian Stretch minimal OS on the host machine
- SSH (RSA) keys for root with direct access (not via sudo etc.)

# BOA Simple Cluster Installer Setup

```sh
$ apt-get update -qq && apt-get install wget -y -qq
$ cd; rm -f cluster.sh
$ cd; wget -q -U iCab http://files.aegir.cc/cluster/cluster.sh
$ mv -f cluster.sh /usr/local/bin/cluster
$ chmod 700 /usr/local/bin/cluster
```

# Usage: Configuration and Examples

### Example for Installing Linux VServer Based BOA on a Dedicated Machine without Any Cluster Configuration, Just a BOA VPS:

```sh
$ cluster in-host server.example.com
$ reboot
$ cluster up-host upgrade
$ cluster in-vps v1 v1.example.com public.ip.address jessie head my@email
```

### Example for Installing Complete BOA Simple Cluster

Add the following required lines to your `/root/.cluster.cnf` file. Required lines are marked with [R] and optional with [O]:

```ini
#
_CLUSTER_EMAIL=""   ### [R] Technical contact email
#
# Public IP and hostname with working DNS for the main web node
#
_WEB_NODE_IP=       ### [R] Public IP address assigned to the machine
_WEB_FQDN=          ### [R] Valid FQDN pointing to WEB_NODE_IP
#
# An odd number of DB nodes in the array: 3, 5, 7 etc. numbered from 0
#
_DB_NODE_IP[0]=     ### [R] Private or Public IP address to use
_DB_NODE_IP[1]=     ### [R] Private or Public IP address to use
_DB_NODE_IP[2]=     ### [R] Private or Public IP address to use
#
_CLUSTER_PREFIX=c1r ### [O] For Linux VServer guests short names
_CLUSTER_SUFFIX=    ### [O] For DB nodes FQDN hostnames: example.com
_CLUSTER_OS=jessie  ### [O] Debian version: jessie
#
```

```sh
$ cluster in-host server.example.com
$ reboot
$ cluster up-host upgrade
$ cluster in-all head
$ cluster in-oct em@il o2 mini head
```

### Example for Upgrading BOA Simple Cluster

1. Update the manager script:
   ```sh
   $ cd; rm -f cluster.sh
   $ cd; wget -q -U iCab http://files.aegir.cc/cluster/cluster.sh
   $ mv -f cluster.sh /usr/local/bin/cluster
   $ chmod 700 /usr/local/bin/cluster
   ```

2. Upgrade the host and all DB and web heads:
   ```sh
   $ cluster up-host update
   $ cluster up-dbs head
   $ cluster up-web head
   ```

3. Upgrade web head with master Ægir -- run again if upgrade fails:
   ```sh
   $ vserver c1rweb exec /opt/local/bin/barracuda up-lts
   ```

4. Upgrade all Octopus instances -- run again if upgrade fails:
   ```sh
   $ vserver c1rweb exec /opt/local/bin/octopus up-lts all force
   ```

### All Usage Options

```sh
Usage: cluster {in-host} {fqdn}
Usage: cluster {up-host} {update|upgrade}
Usage: cluster {in-vps} {id} {fqdn} {ip} {os} {stable|head|galera} {email}
Usage: cluster {in-all} {stable|head}
Usage: cluster {up-dbs} {stable|head}
Usage: cluster {up-web} {stable|head}
Usage: cluster {up-all} {stable|head}
Usage: cluster {in-oct} {email} {o2} {lts|dev}
Usage: cluster {in-pxy} {id} {ip} force-reinstall
Usage: cluster {check} {more|report} {backups|octopus}
```
